Add blog post on Spring Native + JHipster (#1088)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2022-02-28-spring-native-jhipster.adoc

---
#keywords: spring native
layout: blog_post

> title: "Spring Native: start your JHipster + Spring Boot app in just 1s️!"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Start your JHipster + Spring Boot app in just one second"
```
When I added this comment, I didn't realize you had several other title suggestions posted. ;-) 

This scores much better without a mention of Spring Native (59 neutral vs 47 negative ). I also recommend spelling out "1s" for better readability, and leaving the exclamation points out of the title. (since you use them extensively in the headings). I tried various things to up the score but I think the double mention of "Spring" makes it go negative....

Author: I'll re-examine them today and pick the one I like best.

#title: "Spring Native: starting your Java apps in seconds!"

> #title: "Introducing JHipster Native: serverless full-stack Java for all ⚡️"

Reviewer: I like this one and the one on #line 5, and so does the analyzer....  But I'd lose the !

Author: I used this one, but I'm not sure it's a good fit because the keywords (Spring Native) are not in the title.

Author: "Spring Native for JHipster: serverless full-stack Java for all" scores a 58. 

"Introducing JHipster Native: serverless full-stack Java for all" scores a 63, but doesn't have keywords in the title.

== GraalVM allows serverless Java for everyone!

I've been playing with GraalVM and the Java frameworks that support it for around 18 months. After doing a lot of research, I blogged about link:/blog/2021/06/18/native-java-framework-comparison[building native Java apps with Micronaut, Quarkus, and Spring Boot].

In September 2021, I did a talk with Josh Long about Spring Native with JHipster at the San Francisco JUG. I flew out on a Monday, we got everything working by Wednesday afternoon, and then spoke about our experience on Wednesday night. I wrote about it in https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/jhipster-works-spring-native-matt-raible/[JHipster Works with Spring Native!] on LinkedIn and created a https://github.com/jhipster/generator-jhipster/issues/16498[JHipster issue] to automate our learnings.

++++
{% twitter 1442698739563446276 %}
++++

== What is Spring Native?

Spring Native provides an API to configure Spring Boot and GraalVM so classes that are not easily discoverable become recognizable. For example, those that are instantiated using reflection. It's a really slick extension to Spring Boot and will likely disappear with Spring Boot 3 because it'll be native by default.

> As a result of Josh and I's successful https://youtu.be/F9oydL_MndA[presentation at the SF JUG], we were invited to speak at the Garden State JUG in December. We laid low for a few months and rekindled our research in December. I wrote about it in https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/jhipster-works-spring-native-part-2-matt-raible/[JHipster works with Spring Native, Part 2!]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result of our successful https://youtu.be/F9oydL_MndA[presentation at the SF JUG], Josh and I were invited to speak at the Garden State JUG in December. We laid low for a few months and rekindled our research in December. I wrote about it in https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/jhipster-works-spring-native-part-2-matt-raible/[JHipster works with Spring Native, Part 2!]
```
avoids the grammatically awkward "Josh and I's"

== 🔥 Announcing the JHipster Native blueprint v1.0!

> In late January 2022, we (the JHipster team) upgraded JHipster's to use Spring Boot 2.6 and released version https://www.jhipster.tech/2022/01/23/jhipster-release-7.6.0.html[7.6.0].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In late January 2022, we (the JHipster team) upgraded JHipster to use Spring Boot 2.6 and released version https://www.jhipster.tech/2022/01/23/jhipster-release-7.6.0.html[7.6.0].
```
"JHipster's" what? If there's a word missing, I can't come up with a reasonable guess...

> In early February, I updated the Spring Native with JHipster examples that Josh and I'd been using for research. I was ready to start automating the Spring Native integration using a JHipster module. When https://github.com/jhipster/generator-jhipster/issues/16498#issuecomment-1030263905[I asked the JHipster team] about the best way to implement it, https://github.com/mshima[Marcelo Shima] volunteered to create the initial blueprint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In early February, I updated Spring Native with the JHipster examples that Josh and I'd been using for research. I was ready to start automating the Spring Native integration using a JHipster module. When https://github.com/jhipster/generator-jhipster/issues/16498#issuecomment-1030263905[I asked the JHipster team] about the best way to implement it, https://github.com/mshima[Marcelo Shima] volunteered to create the initial blueprint.
```
this is my best guess.

Author: I'm talking about these examples: https://github.com/mraible/spring-native-examples. Maybe I should say "the Spring Native with JHipster examples repo"?

> This was on a Friday afternoon (mountain time). By the next morning, Marcelo had the MVP finished and provided steps to reproduce our examples. 😳

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This was on a Friday afternoon (Mountain Time or MT). By the next morning, Marcelo had the MVP finished and provided steps to reproduce our examples. 😳
```
upper case for the time zone

Author: Do we care about MDT or MST? I think MT is good enough, so I'll commit this.

> I was amazed! I remember telling (my partner) Trish that he'd done a week worth of (my estimated) work in a matter of hours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I was amazed! I remember telling (my partner) Trish that he'd done a week's worth of (my estimated) work in a matter of hours.
```
apostrophe

Today, I'm proud to announce the https://github.com/jhipster/generator-jhipster-native[JHipster Native blueprint] is available! Here's how to use it:

[source,shell]
----
npm install -g generator-jhipster-native
jhipster-native
----

This will generate a JHipster app and integrate GraalVM automatically. You can build and run a native image with the following commands:

[source,shell]
----
./mvnw package -Pnative,prod -DskipTests
./target/native-executable
----

> NOTE: Gradle is not currently an option, but it can be if we add support to the JHipster Native blueprint.

Reviewer: Would it make sense to add a link to Gradle here? Are you trying to gauge interest in adding Gradle support? If yes, maybe include a CTA to leave a comment....

Author: I just know that some folks will say "but what about Gradle?" so that's why I added this here.

When you generate a JHipster app with OAuth 2.0 / OIDC for authentication, it defaults to using Keycloak. It creates a `src/main/docker/keycloak.yml` file for Docker Compose, as well as a `src/main/docker/realm-config` directory with files to auto-create users and OIDC clients.

If you want to use Keycloak for your running app, start it with the following command:

[source,shell]
----
docker-compose -f src/main/docker/keycloak.yml up -d
----

If you'd rather use Okta or Auth0, that's possible too!

==== Use Okta as your identity provider

{% include setup/cli.md type="jhipster" %}

That's it!

You'll need to source the `.okta.env` file the Okta CLI creates to override the default Spring Security settings.

[source,shell]
----
source .okta.env
----

NOTE: If you're on Windows, you can modify this file to use `set` instead of `export` and rename it to `okta.bat`. Then, run it with `okta.bat` from the command line.

CAUTION: Modify your existing `.gitignore` file to have `*.env` so you don't accidentally check in your secrets!

_Skip to <<Run your native JHipster app>> if you've configured your app for Okta and just want to see it running._

==== Use Auth0 as your identity provider

> To switch from Keycloak to Auth0, you only need to override the Spring Security OAuth properties. You don't even need to write any code!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To switch from Keycloak to Auth0, override the Spring Security OAuth properties. You don't even need to write any code!
```
streamlining

Author: At one point, I thought about publishing this post on the Auth0 blog first, then syndicating it on ours. However, I didn't want to go through their slow editing process. Maybe we should try the reverse where we run on our blog and syndicate on theirs?

To see how it works, create a `.auth0.env` file in the root of your project, and fill it with the code below to override the default OIDC settings:

[source,shell]
----
export SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_CLIENT_PROVIDER_OIDC_ISSUER_URI=https://<your-auth0-domain>/
export SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_CLIENT_REGISTRATION_OIDC_CLIENT_ID=<your-client-id>
export SPRING_SECURITY_OAUTH2_CLIENT_REGISTRATION_OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET=<your-client-secret>
export JHIPSTER_SECURITY_OAUTH2_AUDIENCE=https://<your-auth0-domain>/api/v2/
----

You'll need to create a new web application in Auth0 and fill in the `<...>` placeholders before this works.

> ===== Create an OpenID Connect App on Auth0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
===== Create an OpenID Connect app on Auth0
```
sentence case

Log in to your Auth0 account (or https://auth0.com/signup[sign up] if you don't have an account). You should have a unique domain like `dev-xxx.eu.auth0.com`.

> Press the **Create Application** button in https://manage.auth0.com/#/applications[Applications section]. Use a name like `JHipster Native!`, select `Regular Web Applications`, and click **Create**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Press the **Create Application** button in the https://manage.auth0.com/#/applications[Applications section]. Use a name like `JHipster Native!`, select `Regular Web Applications`, and click **Create**.
```
missing article

_Make sure your new user's email is verified before attempting to log in!_

Next, head to **Auth Pipeline** > **Rules** > **Create**. Select the `Empty rule` template. Provide a meaningful name like `Group claims` and replace the Script content with the following.

[source,js]
----
function(user, context, callback) {
  user.preferred_username = user.email;
  const roles = (context.authorization || {}).roles;

  function prepareCustomClaimKey(claim) {
    return `https://www.jhipster.tech/${claim}`;
  }

  const rolesClaim = prepareCustomClaimKey('roles');

  if (context.idToken) {
    context.idToken[rolesClaim] = roles;
  }

  if (context.accessToken) {
    context.accessToken[rolesClaim] = roles;
  }

  callback(null, user, context);
}
----

This code is adding the user's roles to a custom claim (prefixed with `https://www.jhipster.tech/roles`). Click **Save changes** to continue.

**NOTE**: Want to have all these steps automated for you? Vote for https://github.com/auth0/auth0-cli/issues/351[issue #351] in the Auth0 CLI project.

=== Run your native JHipster app

> After you've built your app, it will be available in `target/native-executable`. Start Keycloak or source your Okta/Auth0 settings. Then, run `./target/native-executable`. It should start in under around one second!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you've built your app, it will be available in `target/native-executable`. Start Keycloak or source your Okta/Auth0 settings. Then, run `./target/native-executable`. It should start in under one second!
```
I think "under" is the better choice.

++++
{% twitter 1494118802988089348 %}
++++

// todo: I like showing the tweet ^^ because it got so many likes, but maybe just the screenshot would be better?

== What does the JHipster Native blueprint do?

> The JHipster Native plugin integrates Spring Native into a JHipster project based on https://github.com/mraible/spring-native-examples#readme[the findings from Josh Long and my research]. I documented our findings in September and December 2021.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JHipster Native plugin integrates Spring Native into a JHipster project based on https://github.com/mraible/spring-native-examples#readme[findings from the research by Josh Long and me]. I documented our findings in September and December 2021.
```
you can use "Josh Long and me" here since it is part of the object of the sentence - substitute "the research by us" you would not say "the research =by we"

- Sep 30, 2021: https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/jhipster-works-spring-native-matt-raible/[JHipster Works with Spring Native!]
- Dec 14, 2021: https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/jhipster-works-spring-native-part-2-matt-raible/[JHipster works with Spring Native, Part 2!]

> The crazy thing is, one of the hardest problems we had to solve was with JPA and relationships. In JVM mode, everything worked fine. When running in native mode, https://github.com/jhipster/generator-jhipster/issues/17794[there was an exception]. The solution took days to figure out, but was quite simple to fix: I just had to add a type hint for `java.util.HashSet.class`. 🤯

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The unexpected thing is, one of the hardest problems we had to solve was with JPA and relationships. In JVM mode, everything worked fine. When running in native mode, https://github.com/jhipster/generator-jhipster/issues/17794[there was an exception]. The solution took days to figure out, but was quite simple to fix: I just had to add a type hint for `java.util.HashSet.class`. 🤯
```
I'm quite fond of the word "crazy" but I'm teaching myself not to use it because it is viewed as offensive : 
I subbed "outrageous" but you don't have to. you could use "mind-boggling" "surprising" "unexpected" 
https://ncdj.org/2016/09/terms-to-avoid-when-writing-about-disability-2/. 
"Crazy, insane, nuts, psycho: All are considered offensive and should not be used except in direct quotes. See mental health. "

Author: I'm so used to saying "the crazy thing is". It doesn't sound quite right with the other suggestions, but I'll use "unexpected". Or maybe "the wild thing is" would work here?

> During this experience, the only major lacking thing I found lacking is Spring Native https://github.com/spring-projects-experimental/spring-native/issues/465[doesn't support caching yet]. I believe this support will be added by the community soon. In the meantime, if you're looking to start/stop your infra as fast as possible, you probably don't care about caching. Caching is made for long-lived, JVM-strong, JVM-loving apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During this experience, I was surprised to find that Spring Native https://github.com/spring-projects-experimental/spring-native/issues/465[doesn't support caching yet]. I believe this support will be added by the community soon. In the meantime, if you're looking to start/stop your infra as fast as possible, you probably don't care about caching. Caching is made for long-lived, JVM-strong, JVM-loving apps.
```
a more direct, easier-to-follow statement of what you found lacking.
